
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

<img src="man/figures/logo_herodotools.png" alt="package logo with a map and a phylogeny inside" width="250px" align="right"/>

# Herodotools

<!-- [![CRAN_Status_Badge](https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version/FishPhyloMaker)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=FishPhyloMaker) -->
<!-- [![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/336899540.svg)](https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/336899540) -->

[![license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/mashape/apistatus.svg)](https://choosealicense.com/licenses/mit/)

# General overview

`{Herodotools}` is an R package that allows to perform analysis to
investigate the effects of historical processes, specifically
diversification and historical dispersal, in determine the biodiversity
structure of assemblages and biogeographical regions. This is achieved
by integrating tools of macroevolutionary dynamics (e.g. ancestral area
reconstruction, trait reconstruction) with metrics commonly used in
community phylogenetics, and also by providing new metrics that
integrate the macroevolutionary dynamics in assemblage or
biogeographical scales. Some of the functions presented in
`{Herodotools}` package has been used in previous studies to understand,
for example, imprints of historical processes in present day patterns of
diversity, [macroecological
patterns](https://academic.oup.com/biolinnean/article-abstract/134/1/57/6297962)
and the interplay effects of [ecological variation and macroevolutionary
dynamics](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/ece3.8476#:~:text=We%20found%20that%20environmentally%20heterogeneous,diet%20transitions%20in%20sigmodontine%20rodents.)

In general, `Herodotools` was designed to work as a unified platform of
analysis of historical biogeography by integrating methods from
Macroecology, Macroevolution and Community Phylogenetics.

# Download

To install the development version of this package the user must type:

``` r
# install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("GabrielNakamura/Herodotools", ref = "main")
```

# Example

For more details and examples please visit [Herodotools web
page](https://gabrielnakamura.github.io/Herodotools/)

# Authors

Gabriel Nakamura, Arthur Rodrigues, André Luza, Renan Maestri, Vanderlei
Debastiani and Leandro Duarte
